Let's take a look at this
very complex solution here.
If you opened the hint you might
find essentially the syntax that
we need to copy here is the same as the
mapping from x to run number or y to name.
We're gonna add a new
pair here to map the fill
channel to the conclusion value or column.
So I'm just going to paste
this in right there and
then the hardest part about this
exercise is remembering to add a comma.
[LAUGH] so, once I've done that and
I press again either this little blue icon
or the keyboard shortcut Shift Enter,
then I will see now I have some
information coming through.
These aren't all identical
black squares anymore,
we can see some kind of differentiation
between the different cells.
Okay, any questions?
So far this is just to get us used
to the concept of how channels
are set up in plot marks and
also how to run observable cells,
cuz that's what we're gonna be doing
the rest of the day, all good?
Excellent, so, let us press on.
So as we said before scales
are essentially functions that
we could think of as mapping values
from the input of each channel.
So the domain of the data values to
the output of each channel which
is essentially the range of
visual characteristics that
are specific to that channel.
So in this case, if we're using the fill
channel, we're working with an output
range that's in the color space, so
we're working with a series of colors.
There was a question
in the chat about does
observable choose the default colors here?
So in this case, it's actually plot
that's choosing the default colors.
And as you can see, they're kind of
arbitrary and they don't really tell
us very much in so far as, I'm not
really used to seeing red, and blue,
and yellow have any kind of meaning
associated to them in terms of passing or
failing tests, or canceled tests,
things like that.
So what we're going to do is use
plots notion of scales which
are ways that we can customize how
each of these channels does this
mapping to configure the either
the domain or in our case the range,
the output values of
this particular channel.
So in the case of the channels fill and
stroke,
these are configured by
a scale that plot calls color.
So essentially the color scale applies to
both the fill and the stroke channels.
Right now we're only
using the fill channel.
So, if we wanna change how values
are expressed in that fill channel,
we need to customize the color scale.
So, the way that plot is doing
this by default is essentially
having these default domains and
ranges for each of the scales.
The domain it figures out by looking
at your data sets values, and
in this case it says okay, look,
seems like we have three different values
in the data for this conclusion columns.
So I have a domain of three
different values and then the range
is going to be taken from the first
three values in my default color range.
That's how plot is choosing this.
But what we wanna do is override those
default values to use more easily
recognizable colors.
Now this is a great chance for there was
a question earlier about accessibility and
not just using values like red and
green that might be not very accessible
to folks with red green color blindness.
So this is a great opportunity for you to
choose whatever colors you would like.
Feel free to look up for example on some
accessibility resources on the web if you
wanna an accessible color palette.
Or you could use kind of the conventional
but not super accessible values
like red for failure or green for
success in our culture, right, so
if you want to choose a different
color palette by all means.
But essentially what we're gonna be doing
is in this second cell that we have,
or I don't know next cell down here,
we essentially have the same
plot that we just drew.
We now have a little color property in our
main plot options configuration here,
where here is where we're going to be
setting the new range of this color scale.
And so
we are going to also have to configure
the domain to make sure that
the ordering of our input
values matches the ordering that we
expect from our output color values.